Okay,
guys,
before we get onto the next lecture where we'll see the backwards V look up in action,
I just wanted to show you another method of doing exactly the same thing.
Now,
personally,
I use the other method,
the one that we've just looked at much more frequently.
Mainly because I learned that one a long time ago on this one is comparatively new to May.
But try them both out in whichever one works best for you.
Stick to that one.
They both do exactly the same thing.
This method does use the V.
Look up.
But we introduce another one of excels built in functions,
and that's the choose function.
So let's just take a quick look at choose first.
So equals choose index number.
For now,
we're gonna type one,
and that will become clear why,
in just a second I'm gonna hit calmer and then into our second argument,
which you can see from the tool tips A's value one.
So I'm just gonna type the word first,
close the quotes it comma,
and you can see our next argument is value,
too.
So I'm just gonna type second and close quotes when I close the brackets and hit Enter.
You can see that we get the value first returned because of our value arguments.
This is value one.
This is value to and we've chosen to return the 1st 1 the index one so free to choose to
and hit Enter,
we get second.
Now we've just used that.
And we've actually typed the values in here as the argument.
So let me just committed so that for a second,
actually,
let me just type over that for a second and tight first,
second third here.
And just to I can't type third at Rip,
right?
That's right.
Okay,
so never let let's have a look at the same thing again.
So choose open brackets again.
From there,
we're just going to say Index one comer and they were gonna load the values by pointing out
of the cells.
Are never going to say this cell comma this cell comer this cell and then close off the
brackets.
So there you go.
My returning index.
One of our three values,
G three,
g four,
g five.
We returned first because that's exactly what's written in G one.
So if you wanted to return the third value.
We would just type three as the index number Andi hit.
Enter.
Okay.
So,
fundamentally,
that is how the choose option works.
So let's take a look at that Inaction and incorporating it into the V.
Look up.
Okay.
So equals the look of a turn.
Them right?
Yes.
Equals for he look of open brackets just as we started before.
We're gonna look at this as I'll look up.
Value common.
There were going to introduce the choose option.
Open brackets there.
The index number.
This is where it gets a little more tricky.
Dead straight forward.
Once you follow it,
you'll have it forever.
What we're going to do first is open the curly brackets,
not the normal brackets,
the curly brackets.
Then we're gonna tie one comer to for now on.
Then we're going to close the curly brackets.
So what we've said is choose the index number one on day two.
So now what we need to do is add values into those index numbers one and two before we
pointed to the world's 1st 2nd or third on their what we're going to do rather than
introduce a single value,
we're going to introduce a range of values.
So our first index,
our first value range,
is gonna be where our look up lives.
And we're looking for green on that piers in this column.
So our first value value one is gonna be the range C three through C seven the case and
there were satisfied number one of the choose option.
So one will be C three to C seven comma there.
We need to loathe second range or value to their depend on which column we want to look.
Oh,
well,
just point to which everyone.
So let's say,
for argument sake,
we want to find the name of the person,
so the second value or the second value range will be a three through a seven.
Okay,
so they are two values that we're going to choose from with our choose.
Want to again coma.
Now,
unlike the lookups where we go?
Column on column to column three COLUMN two is going to be the second of our choose options
.
So even though it's in column A,
it's actually going to be column index to because it is the second of our choose options
here.
So come to will return something from a three to a seven newcomer and then false,
just like we did before and hit.
Enter.
So they go.
If you want to know who has green ice,
it's Katie on its red From column to which you know,
Formula column Index number two second option is a three to a seven.
So if you want to change that and drag that over to here and then hit enter,
we haven't changed the column number,
but we do get a different result.
We know Get blonde because we have no moved column index to arrange B three to B seven.
So now we get the answer blonde because that is in column B.
So let's just expand that for a second.
Just for fun.
Eso We could have three and you can keep out into these.
It can keep going up.
So now our first option in the choose section of this formula is rain C three to C seven.
Our second option is B three to B seven.
So s at our third option,
calmer as a three to a seven.
So now we have one C three C seven to B three to B seven c a three to a seven.
And if we turn from number two,
we're going to be true to return in the value from the second column,
which is the B column So hitting Enter still returns Blonde.
But if we wanted to return from column A,
that is the 1st 2nd 3rd 1st 2nd 3rd we will know,
say column Index number three,
which will read from column I.
So when I hit enter,
we know find that Katie has green eyes.
So if we were to say brown and so we can know see that Paul house brown eyes eso they go
play around with both of them.
Find out which one works best for you.
Whichever one you most comes to war with,
Use that one.
OK,
I'll see you in the next lecture.